when somebody is belittling you or being
rude or being disrespectful what we
typically want to do is throw it right
back because now we got to win instead
of that here's what I would want you to
do one you're going to have 5 to 7
Seconds of
Silence two you're going to ask them to
say it again because a lot of time in
arguments people take it back and three
this is where it gets fun I want you to
say that's where your real power is
because it shows that you're the one in
control and they're the ones that are
not I'm Jefferson fiser I'm a board
certified trial attorney and I help
people resolve conflict resolve problems
and I can change two words and change
your life just by what you decide to say
next because what you say truly has the
power to change everything for example I
teach that you never want to win an
argument when you look to win an
argument you will often lose the
relationship that's your prize congrats
so instead of seeing arguments as
something to win see them as something
to unravel and if you can just ask them
the question what am I missing I promise
you that is the most effective tool that
you can use for difficult conversation
but what about when you're dealing with
someone that you don't like the secret
to dealing with someone you don't like
is to and then could you explain to me
this image here so this is all about how
to say no and how does one learn that
start with then end with really that
right there is very very effective
they've got so many
questions this has always blown my mind
a little bit 53% of you that listen to
the show regularly haven't yet subscribe
to the show so could I ask you for a
favor before we start if you like the
show and you like what we do here and
you want to support us the free simple
way that you can do just that is by
hitting the Subscribe button and my
commitment to you is if you do that then
I'll do everything in my power me and my
team to make sure that this show is
better for you every single week we'll
listen to your feedback we'll find the
guest that you want me to speak to and
we'll continue to do what we do thank
you so much
[Music]
Jefferson Fisher I'm incredibly
intrigued by so many of the things that
you produce content about but also this
phenomenal book so if we if we start
from the beginning who who are you and
what is the mission that you're on I'm
Jefferson Fischer I'm a board certified
trial attorney and I teach people how to
argue less and say more um and I'm on a
mission to help change everything about
someone simply by what they decide to
say next what is a trial attorney is
that a lawyer yeah it's a lawyer
attorney same thing and what do you do
as a trial attorney so I help people
resolve conflict resolve problems so if
you have a a problem with someone you
have a choice do you go and just punch
them in the mouth or do you sue them a
lot of times it's something that
somebody is hurt you that they cannot
give back to you so the only way they do
that in the law is to compensate them
with money and so you you can Su just
about anybody so that's how we resolve
conflict here in a lot in America same
for the UK and litigation so what we do
is we Advocate on behalf of other people
so you're in the courtroom and you're
against another trial attorney
essentially trying to make the case for
your party exactly yes sir but isn't
that doesn't that come down to your
ability to articulate yourself and to
persuade and to convince someone of your
isn't wholeheartedly yeah right yeah
what I say the words that I give um are
give mean the difference between
somebody getting their piece of Mind
back or losing
everything and how does one learn like
how did you learn that where did your
skill come from in that regard because
you're regarded as one of the very best
of what you do so where did you learn so
I am a fifth generation trial attorney
so I grew up and while other kids were
were maybe playing when they got home I
got picked up and taken to my dad's
deposition because um my dad was the
only one who could get me at that time
and so I sat in the corner with a yellow
notepad doodling while he is finishing
the rest of his deposition or I'd go to
watch his uh trial I saw lots of closing
arguments and so I got to see
firsthand courtroom stories I mean any
of these people who've been in trial
education they're all wonderful
storytellers so you get to hear that and
hear how they ask questions before they
say they give an answer and so you get
to really add a first row view of how
litigation happens and how to persuade
and what are the levers in conversation
that that push that forward progress
you've written the book on conversation
argue Less Talk More why does it matter
to the average person listening now
that's just clicked on this conversation
why does it matter to them yeah where
some people would teach you how to play
an
instrument I tell you what chords to
play I give you the sheet music and so
once you know where you are even in your
voice what matters are the actual words
that you say and I can change two
sentences two words and change your life
just by what you decide to say next
because where you've been in your whole
life comes down to your communication I
and how you handle conflict where you
left one relationship because of most
likely some type of communication LED
you to another or where you are in your
job or where you are in a podcast it
it's all comes down to what you've
communicated and where you are in the
conversation at all times do you really
think it's that pivotal to your outcomes
in life oh absolutely so if I if I
became a 10 out of 10 Communicator like
I became the best Communicator in the
world what outcomes in my life what
areas of my life do you think will
radically improve I think you could
almost get to to wherever you wanted to
go if you were a 10 out of 10
Communicator you can how you get hired
for jobs let's say in your career comes
down almost exclusively to how you
communicated right there in that
interview you know people have a
wonderful
resume but they have no ability to
communicate that and without the ability
to say anything and say it at least
effectively then they're not going to
get what they want or you have people
who have been in those relationships
where they've continually been stepped
on they wonderful people inside and if
they were only with the right person or
if they could express how they wanted
and what they needed at that time their
whole world would really change I think
a lot about this because of podcasting
and it's one of the um slightly
unfortunate unfair elements of running a
podcast is sometimes you come across
people who have done the most
extraordinary work ever they could be a
scientist and a lab in Boston in America
or they could be I don't know some
exceptional expert in some Niche field
but the reason why they often don't get
the platform the stage on podcasts or on
TED Talks whatever it might be isn't
because of their sort of Merit it's
purely because of their ability to
communicate the ideas and I think the
more and more we head into this sort of
like content YouTube podcasting world
where that's like the dominant form of
media it's so unb it's such an unfair
Advantage yeah if you can communicate
like you can be 50% as good in terms of
skills or experience but if you can
communicate effectively the unfair
Advantage you will have in your life I
think is just completely
disproportionate I couldn't agree more
you have a huge Head Start in the space
you can if you're somebody who you may
know more than anybody else in that
class but if you don't have the ability
to take up the room if you don't have
the ability to capture somebody's
attention and hold it and communicate
what you need nobody will listen and it
is an unfair Advantage it's a great way
to put it and what's the downside then
so if I'm a terrible communicator if I'm
a one out of 10 Communicator currently a
what does that look like but B what does
what do the outcomes look like in my
life the outcomes are you're going to
start to be negative on yourself you're
going to start to talk to yourself in
very negative ways and and really it's a
hopeless feeling you're going to run
into relationships where you're running
into the same problem you're going to go
into jobs where you start to run into
the same problem where it's almost
cyclical where you're not being able to
say what you need to say that makes a
huge difference when you say look I'm
not going to I'm not going to allow
myself to be treated this way anymore
when you don't even know how to voice
your own boundaries or enforce those
boundaries or things of how you want and
where you want to go in your life what
you're going to find is you're just
going to be unhappier more often and
more unsatisfied and that's a a really
hopeless feeling how many followers have
you gotten online now across all your
channels I think we're close to 12
million it's crazy yeah you're telling
me is there is there an attorney that
has that many followers on Earth no
what is it you're doing for those 12
million people at the very core of it
yeah they come to me and they watch my
videos not to fix or learn from what
happened in the last conversation
they're coming to me because they want
to know how to handle the next
conversation and what I do is I give
them these Snippets the same way I would
in an opening argument or a closing
argument I go with three main points I
try to condense a whole lot of
information into something that has very
little so you take what would be
40 pages and you turn it into two
sentences and you turn that into one
sentence you turn into seven words and
what I do is I give them the sense of
hey I can do that I can do that all I
have to do is switch this word or I can
see the impact of just flipping one
little word or reversing the way I'm
giving that sentence and it creates a
very different outcome every time so
let's get into that then you said you
help them focus on the next conversation
yeah what you mean by that so often we
think of first impression versus the
next conversation so you and I meet the
first time or you meet uh your date or
somebody you uh first job interview and
everything's great everybody's has their
best face on everything's wonderful but
it's typically that next conversation
where something's different you get to
learn if the first impression is the
Lasting Impression if somebody was
really who you thought that they were
you put it in terms of an everyday
argument let's say with a spouse or a
friend you have friction that friction
ignites and then you start to both yell
at each other and then you throw insults
at each other and everything gets louder
and louder and louder eventually
somebody crosses the line and says
something they don't mean and it dies go
forget this I'm out of here gone they
leave then there's a next conversation
and that one sounds a lot different than
the first one sounds a lot quieter a lot
slower people say I what I meant to say
was or yeah I shouldn't have said that
what my intent was then they start to
clarify then they start to apologize
then they reframe oh I can see how you
take it that way no no no what I meant
was what they care about in the next
conversation is always much different
than what they focused on in the first
conversation so the key is how do you
take that next conversation and get it
there to be the first one and where do
where do we have to start to understand
this like I want to be a much better
conversationalist and I want to be a
much more effective communicator I want
to argue less I want to talk more I want
to be heard more this is probably
reflective of most people listening
right now so if if if I was a student of
yours coming in to be trained by you
where is the first place you would start
with me number one yeah you say it with
control okay what you mean by that yeah
so when you're in an argument with
somebody what happens automatically is
your fighter flight starts to take over
even in a little argument even in the
very especially even in the small ones
if I disagree with your opinion your
figh Orly kicks in because your body is
saying hey I'm being undermined Your
Mind Is Telling You N I didn't like that
what he's saying is different from what
I'm saying you know what we're going to
think of some other things it's going to
put that down immediately what I want to
do is say something that is going to
fight in other words I'm going to hurt
you I want to say something that's going
to cut you I want to say something that
is hurtful or we run from it you ever
had somebody been on the phone and go
you know I'm over this in the hang up
yeah or they go I'm out of here you know
what forget this and they go and slam
the door that's their flight that's
their they're leaving it's I feel
threatened in this current moment by
this conflict by this differing view so
I need to get out of it when you decide
to say it with control you make sure
that that doesn't happen and it all
begins with your breath all right that's
the key so what I teach every one of my
clients is let your breath be the first
word that you say so we'll run through
it right now that's cool all right so
let's do it uh an exaggerated one and
what this is called and it takes
advantage of is a physiological sigh so
we're going to do is um two seconds in
through the
nose one more at the top and then
go yeah okay how do you feel after you
do that very relaxed yeah all right cool
so what we're going to do is get a
shortcut to that exact
result this time we're going to do it
same thing but don't make the the
noise one more
stop through the mouth again now instead
of the mouth only through the nose
ready now that was a now we did that
almost a little that was very
intentional so let's do it again but
give it a haircut as if like you don't
even I'm you're not even going to get me
to notice
ready that right there now that is your
go-to when ever somebody is telling you
something that you disagree with that is
your go-to before you even say your
first word because it is going to make
sure that that fight ORF flight never
kicks in it keeps that analytical side
that logical side in it the whole time
instead of going oh but wait they can't
yell at me like that no no that's that's
a dumb idea can you believe that you say
instead of that that's your fight or
flight you never even gave yourself a
chance to breathe when you breathe and
use that what I call a conversational
breath now you it allows you to go huh I
wonder where this is coming from I
wonder why they said it like that now it
allows you to kind of stay detached from
that current moment because you're
injecting your breath into it when you
allow yourself to breathe then it's
going to keep you much calmer and so
anytime I have a client that maybe is
getting a question from an attorney that
would be triggering to them or upsetting
to them it's always the training of use
your breath while they're asking the
question and start getting really
curious as to why they're asking that
what's the point that they're trying to
prove don't look at the surface of the
question look at the intent behind it
where are they trying to take you
whenever I can teach them that it's it's
a very powerful result and to do that I
have to kind of be comfortable with the
fact that there will be a pause between
my response and their question yeah
which is quite uncomfortable for a lot
of people uh you think but the more they
do it the better it becomes in fact I
like it because it tells you that I
actually listened so let's say for
example ask me ask me about my just say
how was your day Jefferson how was your
day Jefferson it was good it was good my
day was great um you know it was it was
a day ask me again how was your day
Jefferson it was good it was a good day
I liked it you see how it one says I
didn't even think about what you asked
me the other says no I actually thought
about the question I considered it and
then I chose my answer and so that you
can do that even when especially for
leaders they go into a very busy work
environment where there are problems
right on the floor they have to address
this right at that current
moment the bad leaders will get very
hectic and rise to that same level of
energy the great leaders will capture
the calm energy they inject that breath
and
go okay what's next have you ever uh my
grandfather for example I can ask him um
one time I was like hey do you know
where your your um your screwdriver is
and he he
goes yeah I mean like you know what I
mean
like but that I mean it just but there's
something about it where these kind of
people in your life that you're looking
and drawn to the calm energy the anchors
in your relationship and your
conversations the people that just to be
near them calms you down just to be
around them you go okay great Stephen's
here I feel better good okay he's here
all right things are going to go all
right because they're looking for the
person who is going to be the lead not
just in the conversation but the
frequency of the room it's a calm energy
that you have to capture when you took
that pause when I asked you how your day
had been two interesting observations I
had the first is whatever you were about
to say next I trusted more because You'
had some time to think and you weren't
just spewing out your like automatic
response so I thought oh gosh what's he
gonna say here and there was this
element of like he's really thinking
he's like he really cares about giving
me the H the honest answer and the
second one is I was just so much more
intrigued right because I could see you
thinking so I thought this is going to
be an interesting response yeah and that
was all in that one second where you
took a breath you can see that a lot in
interviews the person who you go oh this
person is smart is when you ask him a
regular interview question and if they
if they give a breath before they answer
you go oh they actually are are
listening to me the ones that have this
rapid fire of let's say for example and
this uses another technique that we'll
talk talk about is if you were to say
would you bring some value do you think
You' bring value to this company and if
I automatically said oh yeah yeah I mean
I think I think I would I think I'd
bring a lot of value to this company
versus I'm confident I'd bring a lot of
value to this company like you hear how
all of a sudden you go that's that's my
person they actually heard me considered
it and I'm really curious about what
they're going to say next there was
something is there's something in the
contemplation which means that I believe
you checked yeah like it's it's simple
way to describe it in that second
example where you paused and said yeah
I've r a lot of value to this company I
was like he actually checked exactly he
like checked he believes it so I believe
it right and that's way every time I
teach a client and I'm preparing them uh
for their deposition what they call a
Depo when you say client who do you mean
you mean yeah so uh people that hire me
in my Law Firm right uh and now that's
translated to me doing it on my phone
and teaching teaching people in my own
membership is I would say okay let your
breath be the first word and once you do
that you're are going to be the other
person's going to go oh man they really
listened to my question see attorneys we
want to get you we want to get you in a
rapid fire we want you to answer very
quickly even better is when you start to
step over my question answer the
question that you think I'm already
going to ask when you do that that means
you're not listening you're not
listening but when I can get a client to
stop breathe and go yeah you know what
that's not that's not not fair I had a
client Elizabeth who one time when I was
prepping her I would kind of I would act
as the other attorney so I do that often
to help get them and simulate what's
going to happen I would say all right
Miss Carson come on I need you to answer
this question that's true it's fair to
say you didn't see that other car did
you and I kind of start to push him that
gets them really nervous you know oh my
gosh and their nerves get up it's
because they're not breathing when
people start to shake it's not breathing
and so she didn't know what to say and
I'm prepping her
come time after I taught her about her
breath same question somebody said and I
knew this attorney I knew he was going
to ask that question he said it's fair
to say you didn't see that other the car
she took a
breath she goes no that's that's not
fair to say I mean I just left it at
that I mean and he just couldn't really
do anything with it but the bigger thing
was it gave her the confidence I was
saying no I listened I see where you're
going with this I'm not going to go
there and so it it helps you
navigate and Empower you really with the
tools of making sure you're always
saying it with control another part of
saying with control is slowing your
words
down when people talk really fast
without thinking about it it gets us
kind of anxious when somebody is talking
really really fast you're okay I'm
trying to understand you it's harder uh
let's say I mean I like hip hop I like
rap music if you listen to somebody
who's rapping really really fast and you
can't understand a word they're saying
you kind kind of like okay I'm lost in
this song I like the beat that's great
but I can't understand what you're
saying people that slow their words down
shows a lot more Effectiveness when you
communicate so let's illustrate this I
want you to say quickly with some almost
some
exasperation
um I already told you I'm not going to
do that say that real quick I already
told you I'm not gonna do that say it
louder I already told you I'm not gonna
do that perfect I want you to do is slow
it down slow it way down each word you
don't have to have the disdain with it
just slow it down say it
again I already told you I'm not going
to do that say you're even
slower I already told you I am not going
to do that oh man that's awesome yeah so
you see how without the emotion yeah you
sounded even more control yeah somebody
who goes I already told you I'm not
going to do that says I have maybe 5%
control but if I slow it down same thing
and I say I already told you I'm not
going to do that now I sound like I have
100% control this is the person you go
whoa okay they're not moving off their
spot they're not somebody who's I can't
press their buttons and control their
emotions that way what type of person
struggles with
this somebody who um would
be not aware of their emotions not aware
of their triggers somebody who just
let's put it has a lack of awareness of
certain things does one self-esteem and
one's insecurities play a role in this
yeah I mean they play role with anything
my counter to that
is we can overcome it it's it's not your
self-esteem that's talking it's the
words the words do it for you have
people who have a hard time saying what
they want it's the words that they need
to say so when somebody's having a hard
time with self-esteem what I find is all
I need to do is get them to start
beginning their sentences with certain
words and it's always a different
outcome they just don't know how to
begin
it so it's very curious on how like
somebody who rarely does people with
self-esteem issue say I need for example
they typically don't like to say that
because it feels to
forward somebody who has self-esteem
issues will typically begin with so you
know maybe like uh and I was thinking
this and you can you can totally tell me
if I'm wrong but uh that's the kind of
thing that you typically hear they're
just using the wrong words to begin
their sentences you have to find words
that push the progress of the sentence
for example if someone says like all the
time I mean I when you said that like it
it just really upset
meh that doesn't push the sentence
forward if you trade out the word like
for the word
because well I mean that just hurt
because when you said that that that
hurt me I'm pushing the sentence forward
rather than letting it drag and so it's
just these little bitty tweaks that one
or two words make a big big difference
so that was the first point you said
control yeah control say it with control
okay is that a second Point number two
say it with
confidence confidence okay how do I say
something with confidence you have to
first understand what it is and I don't
mean that in like a a woow woo like
setting a lot of people come to me and
go how do I have the confidence to say
this I'm getting up the courage or
confidence to say that it's the wrong
way to look at it confidence is not what
you have before confidence is the
outcome and you get to that by saying
things that are assertive what I teach
is confidence is as assertive does so
when you learn how to use your assertive
voice
the result is feeling confident like if
I were to tell you right now Stephen I
need you to feel sad you have a hard
time feeling sad if I said I need you to
be afraid right now like I don't I mean
what what is there to be afraid of like
you just can't conjure that feeling now
if I for whatever reason just gave you a
elbow to the chest I mean you'd be like
upset right you don't have to you don't
have to wonder what it's like to feel
mad you're going to feel it it's the
same with confidence you can't just
conjure up the feeling of of confidence
you only get it by doing assertive
things and the people that are most
confident I found are the people that
have done the thing already so they have
already said the assertive thing they've
already used their voice because the
more assertive they are the more
confident they're going to feel that's
the way it works so you do it you find
confidence by using your assertive voice
and what is my assertive voice and how
is sort of an assertive voice different
to like disrespecting someone um
I've got this graph I think it's from
taken from your book okay which shows
the sort of Middle Ground of yeah I'll
put it on the screen for anyone that
can't see but respecting others sort of
versus respecting yourself and in the
middle of there you have your assertive
voice right what is my assertive voice
it's a balance it's a balance between
sounding almost passive and sounding
aggressive assertive says I'm willing to
be direct with you even in the face
of it not going well but I'm at least
going to give you my truth or I'm going
to say what I need to say without
sounding rude whenever you work direct
with someone it's also very kind to
someone if I were to tell you and prep
the sentence with Stephen I'm going to
tell you this because I know you can
handle it that's different than me going
hey look this is you know probably gonna
upset you and I don't mean to upset you
but you just let me know like that is a
lot whole lot harder the assertive voice
ISS I'm going to be very direct at the
same time I'm going to say it with a
sense of this is doesn't have to do with
me trying to push my way I'm just
letting you know where I stand you don't
you don't have to always play nice
that's not what I'm saying there are
times when somebody says something
that's that's terrible to you you don't
have to push back you just can't be
pushed over and so when you learn your
assertive
voice that's where you find ways to
speak your truth more easily and more
readily so one of the first words are
the lessons of say it uh and using your
assertive voice is that every word
matters the number one culprit of that
is the word
just we use the word just a lot it's
probably one of my my weaknesses that I
have is using the word just in common
conversation no problem it's nobody
cares but when it comes to having to
push a boundary say something at work be
a little bit more on your toes just has
a way of making you sound hesitant the
most common way we hear that is if
somebody goes may an email or a text hey
just wanted to check in with you hey do
you have five seconds just wanted to to
touch base with you it sounds like
you're hesitant as if like I don't
really want to bother you if you remove
the word just now you're leaning into it
so instead of I just want to check
in I wanted to check in with you that's
a lot more forward a lot more forward
progress rather than just using the word
just but every little word matters
you've had those texts where somebody
gives you like a whole paragraph I don't
I don't know what how to respond to this
what I teach is that the longer your
answer the more questions you're going
to get the longer that conversation's
going to go the longer the argument is
going to go so you have to find ways to
say more with less you have to find ways
to say more with less so does the amount
that I speak have consequence yes there
is this it's this idea of the more words
it takes to tell the truth the more it
sounds like a lie like the more you have
to say to explain something to me the
more I start to assume you don't know
what you're talking about and we have
this way of what they I guess they call
it word vomit where you just you talk a
whole lot people get lost in your
sentences and also when you choose to
speak makes a very big difference like
have you ever been one of those
meetings and there's always there one
person that has to throw in their two
cents they always have to throw out
their idea or be the Devil's Advocate
have something to say at every single
issue that gets brought up most of the
time those are the people that are
honestly the least connected to what's
actually happening or least part of the
conversation because they want you to
know how smart they are or how many
people they know these are the same
people that name drop like every other
sentence uh the person that is like you
know oh I was talking with Stephen the
other day oh you know Stephen right oh
you're a great guy uh you know and they
start to name drop just so you know know
how many people that they know
insecurities are are very loud
confidence on the other hand is very
quiet insecure people have the the need
to say everything so that I sound more
believable so you'll know how much I
know and how smart I am confident people
have the urge to say nothing because
they have nothing nothing to prove like
if you disagree with me on something
that I know to be
true I I wouldn't be nearly as affected
let's say uh like we both have on a
black shirt if if you were like uh
Jefferson this a dumb purple shirt you
have
on okay like I don't need to convince
you what I already know the color of my
shirt is it's like if you know that
about yourself what you have internally
inside you don't have the need the
insecurity to prove it to everybody else
that they're wrong the confidence is
very quiet the people that are typically
the most looked to are the people that
say the least they listen a whole lot
more
do people capitalize on on that so if
you're triggered by me saying that you
have a purple shirt
onh have I got the power now because I
can like play you like a fiddle if
that's you're so easily triggered by
something that's so obviously like
provocation surely I like I have the
power over you now right no I mean I
mean the people that are not emotionally
intelligent the people that don't have
the emotional awareness yeah you can you
can press their buttons and play them
like a fiddle because what they've done
is they've that would be like me giving
you the remote say here here's the
remote to my emotions go ahead play them
press that button oh yeah oh you made me
angry how how dare you instead of
handing out remote controls you get in
the habit of giving out
manuals and so if you want to yell at me
and press my
button and me to say you can't yell at
me like that versus me handing you a
manual and go hey I heard you yell at me
if you don't mind go to page 72 you can
look on paragraph 3 I don't respond to
that volume like you're giving a whole
different mind shift of this is what I
tolerate and this is what I don't
tolerate do you have a lot of um people
Pleasers coming to you you know yeah
yeah yeah people pleasing is very hard
and I mean the thing is you can you can
please people just make sure that you're
one of them and that's the harder part
is I'm always people say I'm always
saying yes to things I don't know how to
say no to things I don't know where to
go with this that's a whole lot harder
using your assertive
voices helps with that in a lot of ways
and it is about trying
to make sure that when you people please
with people you have to find a way to
set a boundary that is going to protect
yourself and that's that's easier said
than done it's it's interesting being um
I started my first business when I was
my first proper business when I was
about 18 years old and when you're 18
years old and you're dealing with people
that are like double your age and you're
different because your skin color is a
little bit different you have no
experience you I reflect I was talking
to the guy was cutting my hair yesterday
because he's a a young black man
starting in business and you were aware
that every conversation you're having to
some degree is a test yeah it's like a
test of how much you value yourself how
much you believe in yourself and how
much you believe in what you're building
and what you're saying like it's an
interesting way to think of life that
like every conversation is actually test
a test of your conviction and I was just
I was talking to my barber about how
I've changed over time and how business
has made me become more direct and more
assertive than I was when I was 18 years
old because like I wouldn't have
survived in some of the rooms that I'm
in with like very eccentric billionaires
who have done this 40 years before me if
if I didn't have that assertive voice if
I wasn't able to look them in the eye
and say with calmness and a slower Pace
what I believe to be true um it's so
interesting like just thinking about how
so much of our life is about developing
this ability to assert what we believe
without the just or the caveats or the
excuse yeah where they also go into
trouble is when people what I see a lot
are people that over apologize I find
that that is big with people Pleasers
where they say I'm sorry in every single
sentence hey so sorry I'm just now
getting back to you sorry I just now
seen this oh I can't come so sorry like
they start to apologize for things that
are not a mistake they apologize for
things that that are not
errors and when you start to over
apologize with every little thing
without you knowing it it's slowly Drip
by drip corroding your sense of
self-esteem your sense of
self-worth it's you your self-worth is
not tied to how little of an
inconvenience you can make yourself by I
was saying so sorry I I don't mean to
bother you I just have a quick question
instead of the over apologies what I
teach is use words of
gratitude so instead of the um so so
sorry I'm late even though you were like
one minute late thank you for waiting on
me or thank you giving let's say it's an
email thank you for giving me the the
time to think on this thank you for
giving me the time to reply thank you
for giving me the patience you know what
the other person is going to think I am
patient oh yes I am you're so welcome I
mean you're you're using words of
gratitude to press that and that's a
whole lot easier than the problem of
people Pleasers and that's just over
apologizing to just about everything or
they undercut their words or they say
like uh I hate to bother you but and
then they have to say what they need to
say in this regard what do the most
successful people in the world the
leaders the prime ministers the
presidents the
CEOs have in common as it relates to the
stuff we're talking about right now so
you know what I'm saying so like are
they are they assertive are they people
pleases like what do they have in common
here what I find that people are people
so it's going to most often it's just
going to come down to to their
personality but overall your most
effective leaders find ways of taking a
lot of ideas and words and saying them
very
concisely the bigger leaders they don't
write long emails yeah they so true they
don't write long texts rich people don't
even say hello in kind regards on
[__] emails they just they literally
they they send emails like text messages
yeah I have I have found in my own life
that the Richer somebody is they could
care less about an email signature
they're not if they even have one and
they might give you two sentences maybe
is very very quick and to the point um
because it's either they really don't
have the time it's not really that it's
they they want to have the appearance of
being very direct and they don't see
that as a an offense they don't see that
as an insult they see that that is the
way that I'm going to operate they don't
write long emails they don't write them
in a way that's going hey uh just want
to put this on your plate and if if I'm
wrong about this you can totally let me
know and I have a question about this
what's number three then so you've given
me two yeah we say say it with say it
with control say it with confidence and
three is say it to connect these are how
do you have how do you have these
difficult conversations with somebody
how do you find ways to say what you
need to say in one of the most difficult
times that gives a lot of people anxiety
if they know they have to have a
difficult conversation even in weeks
ahead especially the day ahead they're
just dreading
it so how do I say something to connect
yeah what you want to do is get really
curious about the other person but not
just so much that there is a framework
that I'm I can even give you so we can
go a step
further there is a frame and I call them
conversational frames when to connect
with somebody it is a fancy word I think
connection can be overused at times just
means I say something that you can
understand and you acknowledge me that's
all we're looking for doesn't mean that
everything's happy doesn't mean it's a
Hallmark car I can connect with you and
still be upset at you my dad would used
to tell me if I came if I disagree with
something he'd say he would go you don't
have to like it you just need to
understand it I mean that that right
there was a great example of allowing me
to connect with him and giving me the
the space to disagree if you were to
begin your sentence with I'm not asking
to change your mind or I don't need to
change your mind it's almost like a
relief before you say the rest of what
you need to say now you're not in that
combative fight or flight of do I have
to defend myself at any time so
connection is this way of setting up
conversations that is going to get you
more of what you want we talked about
the frame here's how to do it and this
is the most effective tool that you can
use for a difficult conversation number
one you're going to begin with telling
them what you want to talk about number
two you tell them and this is the most
important how you want to end the
conversation what you want to walk away
from and three you get their buyin into
that conversational frame this is what
it sounds like let's say this is I need
to come to you and talk about something
serious so first I'm going to say what
we need to talk about Stephen I like to
talk with you about some comments you
made at last Thursday's meeting two I'm
going to tell them how I want to walk
away it sounds like and I want to walk
away from that conversation with the
understanding that's not going to happen
again three I'm going to get their Buy
in I'm going to say that sound good
you're going to say yeah now you know
exactly where we're going you know
exactly what we're going to talk about
you know when that conversation's going
to end and how it's going to end and now
I have your Buy in and it's like almost
an invisible contract when somebody goes
yeah that's good we can talk about that
they don't want to leave it they don't
want to break their word so they they
know that they're going to be stuck in
it and then is there anything I need to
be aware of when I have that difficult
conversation with them so so that I
don't so that I'm successful in getting
to that outcome number one would be set
the goal of knowing where it's going to
end that that is the hardest probably
the biggest downfall of the difficult
conversation people expect them to go
how they had it in their head they want
the conversation happen just like they
had it while they were brushing their
teeth that morning or driving on the way
into work they're like okay I'm going to
say this and they're going to say this
and you expect everything to go just how
you had it in your head but as soon as I
say that one thing you weren't
expecting all of a sudden they disagree
with you and you go wait that's not how
it's supposed to be they were they were
supposed to say this they were supposed
to say I'm right they were supposed to
say they're wrong I mean uh how's this
going to go and then it begins to drown
falter like that because when we go into
those sort of difficult conversations
whether it's with a colleague or our
spouse or whoever it might be much of
the objective I think for some of us is
to is to win the conversation yeah in
whatever definition of winning one might
have is endeavoring to win a
conversation a good idea I teach that
you never want to win an argument and
this is why when you look to win an
argument you will often lose the
relationship like if you set out to
only prove people wrong yeah you might
win the point but you will lose the
person you know being right doesn't keep
you company let's put it that way when I
look at his arguments as only something
to
win all I've won is really the first
step to to apologize typically
when you set out to win it because most
arguments aren't really one it's just
they're one by forfeit somebody goes I
I'm over this or you said it something
that was really hurtful that makes them
say I don't want to uh we're done I
don't want to talk about this an
argument eventually burns out that's
what happens but when you set out to win
you will lose the relationship like if
you you and I are in an argument and I
say something that's really hurtful and
then you leave you hang up the phone
what have I won yeah I mean what I I've
I've won awkward silence now when we
pass each other in the hall I've I've
won that awkward feeling now I have to
pick up the phone and apologize I still
have to find a way to probably work with
you or live with you what have you
proven when is ever
you go on the social media and disparage
somebody's political belief ever changed
their mind ever there's been so many
arguments I've had with like my
girlfriend where I have quote unquote
won and I felt like [__] yeah you will
cuz I cuz she like she might come to me
and say you know what I understand your
point and I'm I'm sorry and there's part
of me that just feels like [__] and I
it's it's because I thought that's the
outcome I was looking for but actually
the outcome I was looking for was
resolution and I actually love this
person so much
that a concession was not like was
actually not I it's not what I wanted I
actually wanted to be happy with them
yeah so I to you know I was think of so
many some some recent examples where my
girlfriend came to me and apologized for
something where we were like disagreeing
about it and I just felt like [__] that
she apologized it's not to explain yeah
yeah yeah well no it's not an uncommon
experience whenever you feel like you
had to always be right and that's what
we really want we want the last word
when you have the last word you are
typically first up to apologize that's
all you've that's all you've bought
yourself that's the that's your prize
congrats and when that happens you find
a way of going that's not really what I
I wanted why did I say that that was
just that was just hubris that was just
me I just had a feeling of being right
and sometimes we have that feeling
of when especially in terms of people
that are in charge of other
people um we expect others to do what we
say when you're in work mode and you say
I need this done people get it done you
set the tone this is how we want to do
it and sometimes we translate that into
our own romantic relationships oh no I
said it needs to be this way so you know
what you to do you need to do it this
way MH and it's a different shift when
you're doing something that's romantic
versus something that is you have to be
captain of the the ship and so whenever
you're in those difficult conversations
you only seem something to win you're
going to have a hard Pro problem what I
teach is instead of seeing arguments as
something to win you see them as
something to unravel meaning what we
want to do is pull my way and then you
pull it your way and it just makes it
worse makes it worse we have to give up
and it's not until that next
conversation that we actually try and
care of what happened I will often tell
someone help me find the nod help me
find the knot and what I'm doing is
encouraging them to say I'm not saying
what's wrong with you I'm not saying can
can you be any more stupid I'm saying
Help me find the nod it's a way of
detaching the issue detaching the
problem saying this is something for us
both to look at help unravel where's the
what am I missing that phrase right
there is very very effective if if you
can just ask them the question what am I
missing they will always tell you CU
most likely it's not something that
you're focused on you're only focused on
what you're saying you're not focused on
what they're hearing big big difference
I have um two glasses on the floor here
yeah
um try not to spill
it nice since I've been a
waiter um so I have these two glasses of
water in front of me what is I know
there's an analogy you have for having a
good effective conversation that can be
demonstrated with these two glasses of
water yeah so let's say that this glass
right here is all of my thoughts and
knowledge and your glass is all of your
thoughts and knowledge and not just what
you think now these are things that
you've known throughout your entire life
so if I were to tell you
something about I want to get your
thoughts maybe a political opinion or
something that's a religious belief I'm
talking like deeply held beliefs that
you grew up with that's what's in that
cup right there when we go into a
conversation with
someone often what we find is especially
if it's like a stranger that what I say
in our first conversation should
convince you automatically that if I
were to take all of my knowledge right
here and I pour it in there should be no
problem but what but what happens when I
start to pour into
here it overflows meaning you have no no
room you have no room for what I want to
share whatsoever it's going to just it's
overflow instead what you have to find
ways to ask questions and get really
curious meaning instead of me pushing my
point instead of saying why do you
believe that beginning your question
with why I start to get really curious
about how did you come to believe that
where did you learn that when did this
happen ways that I get to ask questions
every day like I do as a trial attorney
to find ways of getting to the issue of
what's that deeply held belief where
does it come from because only then
let's go ahead and pour yours into
mine there you go perfect and so it's
only then until you have space that I'm
asking questions when every I ask
questions you start to answer just a
little bit more and then you answer just
a little bit more to where you actually
have space the care at all to what I'm
going to tell you like you can't f
I can't fill a glass that's already full
with new thoughts it's not going to
happen it's not until I can get you to
pour it all out till you'll ever be
receptive and have room for what I want
to share with you so that's the key in
difficult conversations that you have to
find ways to get really curious about
who's the person behind the words
because the person you see isn't the
person you're talking to I might be
talking to Stephen right now but there
are things that happen in your life that
you believe that happen long before I
ever talked to you and we have this huus
about us that we think that just because
I told you you should believe something
right at this moment you're going to
automatically change your mind Minds
don't get changed in one conversation
they happen over a year of a hundred
conversations a thousand conversations
before anybody will ever be receptive to
what you have to say so what's like a
real world example of this idea that you
might not be talking to step you might
be talking to something he's dealing
with yeah so let's put it in terms of
I've had a a client before this is not a
let me rephrase that I had a deposition
before where I was talking to a witness
and he was a huge mountain of a man his
name is Bobby lapre I'm talking Ste he
was huge his hands I mean he just looked
I looked like I was physically deficient
in every way next to this guy and it
didn't matter what I asked him Stephen
he got mad at me I mean I was asking him
basic things like where were you where
were you born okay and where' you
where'd you go next and what happen next
and every time he would just get angri
and angrier and eventually I had to ask
him I said do you need a break and he
said no but I got something to say and I
thought I thought he was about to just
flipped the the table on me it was just
so furious and I asked him well once he
even told me he said you you can cut all
this buddy buddy stuff except he didn't
say stuff and he said you you lost
lawers you attorneys you're the worst
thing to happen in this government
you're the worst thing to happen so you
can go on and ask your stupid questions
but I don't trust you as far as I can
throw
you well instead of taking that bait
which most people wanted to do I asked
him a question I
said what am I missing what's what are
you struggling with right now in your in
your life what's been your biggest
struggle and they have to ask about they
have to answer questions in a deposition
and what I learned was that he big bobul
pray this huge guy had just put his
mother in a nursing home and he was the
only one to take care of her his dad had
died his brother was off and he had been
getting letters for
months about his mom and her home from
lawyers about foreclosing making demands
debt collection all these things that he
just didn't understand and so right then
in that moment I represented everything
he knew about the law and lawyers and
everything else and so the person I saw
was an aggressive mad witness the person
I was talking to was a worried son and
and we got to talk that out and I helped
him and it was a ended ended wonderful
we ended actually hugging but every day
you have these micro moments of the
person you see is not the person you're
talking to the the waitress that looks
like she's being rude and dismissive is
actually worried because she should have
gotten off two hours ago and her mom is
still keeping her kids or you have
somebody who even in the workplace who
seem like they're a little bit short on
their their phone call with
you somebody who looks like they're
aggravated actually their day began
because you know he and his wife are
going through a divorce and they stayed
up all night arguing everybody has a
struggle that you can't see they're
having a conversation in their head that
you were not invited to and so when you
have the patience to try and understand
the person behind the words it's going
to go a whole lot better for you and
they'll feel that when you just want to
accept them for what they look like it's
it's always different like when I if I
were to tell you you were wrong about
something for me to change your mind
like right now I most likely I'm not
saying that Stephen's wrong I'm saying
your parents are wrong I'm saying a
grandparent's wrong something you grew
up your whole life was wrong that camp
you went to Growing Up was all wrong
there's pieces and identities that have
all combined into what you believe now
and we have this horrible habit of
thinking for some reason that if I say
it to you right in this moment it's all
going to change and you're going to just
immediately conform to what I want you
to be being triggered is a Hallmark of
that isn't it like being when we say oh
God they're like easily triggered it's
really you're scratching at an open
wound that might have been there many
years ago I I was reflecting as you were
speaking about a particular friend that
I have who I remember a conversation
with him in the middle of the pandemic
where he like turned to me and said
um it's people that are young and
healthy that are ending up in the
hospital beds and I remember saying to
him I was like I was living at his house
I was like no I don't think that I think
the NHS website says it's people that
are like out of shape and slightly older
that are ending up in hospital beds and
he like was like really really triggered
by that and I remember he's like good
friend of mine so we had a conversation
about it and we dug and dug and dug cuz
we like really good friends like why why
is it that all of us as like boys we
know in like the group chat when we're
bantering all we've got to do is say
like now you're wrong wait one one thing
and it's like Red Mist yeah and we had
like a really open conversation about it
over really over the last like year and
a half and he said
um when I was younger all of the
teachers thought I was stupid and also I
then got bullied on the playground
because people thought I was stupid and
then I found text messages from my
grandmother to my mom where they said I
was stupid
and then I found on my report card they'
basically written me off so 30 years
later when we're having a conversation
just a trivial conversation about the
pandemic when I go no I don't think
that's right and I like pull up the
website and stuff and he gets like sees
the Red Mist as mean him call it now it
all stems back 30 years to this
experience of on the playground so like
you said it could be proving proving
someone wrong but in that case it's
actually like proving the bullies right
it's proving all the people that hurt
him right and it's showing up 30 years
later is this Red Mist the story ends
with him going to a therapist and
speaking about it and he's resolved it
now to the extent to which he can where
now when he feels that feeling he's able
to point it he knows what it is and so
it doesn't make the decision right
knowing your trigger is one of the
biggest ways to defend against that to
know your trigger and it's funny how
just like your friend is telling you so
many things in everybody's life goes
back to the playground MH like we can
remember that thing that that one kid
said like right now you probably
remember it somebody said in high school
came straight to mind and and it's it's
been years years but you remember it and
it lives with you for that long um just
simply what they had said in that moment
that you've created that identity that's
that's a trigger and if you tend to hit
somebody with a trigger it's different
like you can always it's very telling in
the courtroom when somebody takes a
level one conversation and they ratchet
it up to a level 10 it's very dispor
disportionate and it tells you that
there's a conversation happening in
their head that you weren't invited to
it tells you that something else is is
going on and when you have the patience
and the discipline to find that person
rather than just fighting the surface it
you will always have a deeper connection
with that other
person if you're dealing with someone in
your romantic relationship ship at work
whatever that is easily triggered in
that
regard what advice would you give to the
person dealing with that person who is
like continually easily triggered they
see the Red Mist all the time it's
almost impossible to talk to them
because they immediately just flip to 10
yeah they avoid the difficult
conversation you feel now that you can't
even have that conversation with them
because they're immediately going to
Gaslight you or they're just going to go
straight to 10 and they're going to be
flooded right you know that phrase that
I've heard before about like when the
brain gets flooded like they just get
welmed in there yes what do you do with
that kind of person you just curious or
well it's I don't want to just say
curious because I don't I think that
doesn't do it justice one would be you
have to delay what you what they said
from when you respond you have to add a
lot of distance there because if you
continue to engage and go why why can't
you talk about this what's wrong with
you that will only spiral it more what
they're going to hear is something is
wrong with me something I am feeling is
bad when in that moment their body is
fighting their body is going I feel
threatened I feel anxious I got to get
out of here and it's happening in micr
minutes that you there's nothing you're
going to be able to say that's going to
help that trigger aside from you
allowing them the space to have it so
that means you're going to find ways to
approach
conversations with that in mind so one
would be adding distance and not
addressing it in that current
conversation because they're triggered
you don't want to do that you want to
find it in the second conversation so in
the first one you can easily end it with
hey we can drop it not a problem we can
talk about it later because problems
happen Stephen when you try and push
people into having conversations on your
timeline in other words when they're not
ready ever had somebody come up to you
and go hey I need to talk to you right
now and and you're like you want to talk
like that's the last thing you're trying
to control my time this is not what I
want to talk about right now and I'm not
ready for this conversation and that
that causes a big problem when
somebody's trying to push their timeline
on
you um we can talk about ways to to deal
with that but it is that's what happens
and when you do it with somebody going
what's wrong with you let's talk why
can't you talk about this right now
you're just pushing them into a corner
and you're making them harder I mean you
just they become hardened they'll
totally shut off from you then they're
gone then they won't come back for
several days most likely so when you
start to push on them things will go
wrong so that's when somebody's feeling
triggered that second conversation that
next conversation is the I like let's
put a frame on it I like to talk about
what we began talking on on last Monday
and I I'm not trying to solve anything I
just want to understand where you're
coming from so that I can do better can
we do that like right there that's going
to be a much better way to set up and
frame that difficult conversation rather
rather than going hey so um question for
you uh what's up with you because
something's something's off all right
like that's the way that it's gonna
you're gonna trigger them again so many
people are so interested in
understanding how to deal with
disrespectful people yeah like being
disrespected right so if I'm being
disrespected is there a playbook for me
to handle that and why is it that so
many people are so obsessed with like
dealing with
disrespect I find that people
are really attracted
to
comebacks of things and I find that so
funny but it's it's a big part of
communication for an important reason
when somebody is let's say belittling
you or being rude or being disrespectful
there's kind of I teach is a little bit
of a different method for each one and
how you handle it makes a very big
difference what we typically want to do
when somebody's being rude to us or
disrespectful we want to throw it right
back at their face we want to ratchet it
up because now we gota now we got to win
so oh you think I'm stupid how about let
me talk about how you're stupid I mean
so we want to throw it back at the other
person all that does is ratchet it up
and then again it's it becomes to who's
going to apologize first that kind of is
where the game starts to lead um what
you I was curious what you have on the
book now well I was just looking at this
section in your book about dealing with
difficult people yeah that's probably my
favorite um it's your favorite yeah it
was also probably the most popular part
of the book because it outlines a
specific manual on how to handle these
kinds of people and I've developed it
from these people specifically that I've
had in depositions and
cross-examinations in the courtroom that
very compatitive people that you find
ways to you think that the power power
is in having a direct response back of
them that's going to uppercut them like
smart people people like you Stephen
people like all your listeners we have
this desire that when somebody says
something ugly we want to send the
Zinger like we want to have we want to
craft something so poetic that it's not
going to hit them until the two days
they go like oh my God she totally got
me and that's just not going to happen
but the true power is
this kind of Be Like Water mentality
it's instead of direct with them you're
just avoiding it you're pushing it out
of the way to where you're going what
you're saying is not threatening to me
and you do that in several different
ways this would be how I'd say how to
handle people that are belittling you or
giving you disrespect one you're going
to add silence five to seven seconds of
nothing two you're going to ask them to
say it again let's say it's insults
those insults are very direct you're ask
them to repeat
it and three you're going to just let
that sit whatever they say so for
example um let's put it in terms of
somebody who let's give it an
example this would be somebody who's
giving you just a straight insult
insults are different from a disrespect
or something being rude insults are very
direct saying somebody saying like
you're ugly right um how I if I were to
say you're Ugly how would you respond
and you're not by the way un let's just
say so it's so hard because it's like
the context dependent like
you laugh but if it was like it depends
on the context doesn't it yeah I was I
was like oh that's that's the shirt you
went with I guess all right okay like
that's whenever somebody is insult uh
insulting you yeah we have this ability
to get really mad and on it and get
angry but best way to do it is let's say
if you told me you know I I really think
you're an idiot
Jefferson give it a a little bit of
silence and I would repeat I'm an idiot
Jefferson now it's going to put it
Spotlight right back on you for you to
confirm it double down on it or you're
going to apologize a lot of time in
arguments people take it back I'm sorry
I shouldn't have I shouldn't have said
that my head was I got to in front of it
but if they double down on it what all
you need to do is just thank
them thank you in other words thank you
for showing me who you are thank you for
making sure that I'm not going to be
with you uh anymore and this is who you
are in my life very different from let's
say with somebody who is belittling you
uh patronizing you being condescending
to you this is where uh it gets fun this
is one of my favorite ones so let's
let's give this a um a
test oh Stephen I see that uh you lost
some weight that's that's great man good
good for you how would you typically
want to respond to that thank you yeah
now if I had said something that was um
a little bit more ugly if it was like oh
you finally lost some way I was
wondering where you would yeah uh that's
that's good on you would you still say
thank you again no yeah what would you
say that's rude yeah yeah exactly like
oh okay that's that's a little offensive
so here's what I would want you to
do add silence we're going to have five
to 7 Seconds of Silence MH and what that
does is allow them their words to fall
so it's going to one tell you that their
words aren't threatening you're adding
that space in there for two reasons one
to calm you down because you're can to
be using that breath we talked about
second of all allows them to hear their
words back because it's like they walk
their words out onto a plank and now
they're all alone so if you if you had
said something ugly to me and um you
said something like oh well um Jefferson
great to be here I guess I I guess we'll
include you I guess you just came it
it's something that made me feel like I
wasn't
wanting and if I just let that hang for
a little bit and then I asked a question
of intent these are what I call
questions of intent where it says did
you say that to upset me did you say
that to hurt me or did you mean if you
begin your phrase with did you mean did
you mean for that to offend me did you
mean for that to be rude I do this a lot
in uh email correspondence or texts when
somebody sends something to you and you
feel like all of a sudden it's rude but
really if you just text did you mean for
that to sound short like it cures up
almost instantly because it's not
exactly a lot of the time people don't
mean it that way but they're going to
say something to you that is going to
respond
in most likely they're going to say no
they're not going to know how to handle
that they're not going to do with that
if you can respond with um imagine
imagine being like imagine being the
person who would say that or how did you
want me to feel or ask them how did you
feel when you said that how does it make
you feel when you say that you're going
to say something ugly to me and I give
it a big pause and I would
respond how does it make you feel when
you say that to me or I'm surprised you
said that out loud can you just tell
them how it felt can you just say that
was really hurtful yeah you can but
that's that's giving them what they want
you're giving them the dopamine that's
what they wanted they said that so that
it would hurt they're saying that for
because in their mind they wanted you to
have that sense of pain they wanted to
grab that from you they wanted that
sense of control so when you say oh that
hurt often that's exactly what they
wanted in that moment now it's going to
take them some time to realize oh I was
really a jerk about that but in that
moment what they're wanting is that hit
a dope me from you they're wanting that
sense of control so when you ask them a
question so if I were to say that was
that was rude they're you're giving them
what they want that's a direct statement
but if I asked did you say that did you
say that to be rude did you mean for
that to sound rude now they have to
admit that's very different now they
have to admit what their intent was with
that now they have to say yes or no most
what they most of the time what they do
is they kind of fumble over their words
and they go what I I mean what I meant
to say was or no no no no I'm sorry what
what I meant was they don't want to they
don't want to hurt now going to hurt the
reputation now they're going to they put
themselves way too far out on a Ledge
and that's much harder on page 166 of
your book the next conversation you say
when you hear someone say something rude
or insulting understand that they're
wanting something from you that
something is dopamine the Feelgood
hormone that something is
dopamine yeah so when they when somebody
says something
to be ugly what they're wanting is your
emotion they're saying I'm unhappy I'm
only going to be satisfied if I can make
you a little bit unhappy too that's
where I'm going to feel justified in
this I'm only going to feel Justified
when I've caused you pain and when that
happens your best defense against that
is to be like a wet blanket like be a
soggy piece of bread that they can't do
anything with they can't move that they
can't control that and what you're
telling them in that moment is it's not
going to be that fun for you
you that's the best way to handle a
bully bully does something and you ask
them did you say that to hurt me or does
it feel good for you to say that or how
did you want me to respond when you said
that let's say I came in and I go oh I
guess we're you know I guess this is
okay yeah I guess we can talk in here
that's fine right I mean that's kind of
condescending yeah wouldn't you say
and if you had asked me in that moment
um did you mean for that to sound rude
I'd be like oh no oh no goodness either
either I'm calling it out or you'd say
that's that's an odd thing to say out
loud can you say that in all context I'm
thinking if you can you say that to
your like the CEO of the company you're
an intern MH and they say something to
you and that they look at a piece of
work you've made and they go I mean I
guess that's okay yeah do you know what
I mean does context matter here well I I
still think you could say it I mean it
depends how you're going to
yeah yes it just depends uh yeah context
certainly matters on some level but I
mean if if it is a position
of just I think if there's a such a huge
power Dynamic something like that if
you're an intern and you're like look
this guy's just having a bad day I don't
think I need this is not the time for me
to choose to try and have
a uh a way of making him feel
bad or if it's like okay I can I'll
accept that or I can do better with that
there's ways that you can try and
diffuse the the rudeness another that I
really like to to use this would not be
in in that context but that's below my
standard for response those are really
bad arguments so I've had it where
really really bad arguments where you've
used that's below my standard for
response and they really don't know what
to say after that a lot of times when
I'm in depositions and somebody has a
snarky comment towards me I'll ask them
now how how did you want me to respond
to that
they don't know they don't really have
an answer they kind of just go I mean
what I mean what I meant was and they
and they fix it but the signal you're
sending the whole point of it all is to
show them that the next time you choose
to do this it's not going to be fun this
is not what you're getting that's the
whole point of getting them to repeat a
lot of the times if I say you know what
I didn't I didn't catch that can you can
you say that again they can't bear to
say that again it's like conversational
boundaries that's what saying yeah so
one time I had a case between two
sisters and it was about as fun as it
sounds uh two older sisters have
fighting over our company their dad had
passed away I had one sister another
attorney friend of mine had another
sister and my client was let's say very
levelheaded she wanted to preserve the
legacy of their family and the company
the other had very different Life
Choices let's say and the other one
wanted to sell the company well they
eventually came to almost an agreement
on how they were going to
divvy up uh bu buy the sister out we're
at mediation and I knew that we knew
that this other sister was there's no
telling what she's gonna she's GNA say
out of her mouth and I had already
prepared my client for if she insults if
she says anything ugly you're going to
ask her to say that again all right so
sure enough we get at the mediation
table we have a a opening discussion and
the sister the let's say the
the more fiery sister goes on this TI
raade and and says how everything's
against her she hates everything and
then she looks at her sister and says
and I've never I I've never loved you
you're dead to me anyway now that's
sister to sister that's like terrible it
was it was super sad to watch my client
goes I need you to say that again to me
the other sister couldn't do it she
didn't say that again because it it puts
them out on on a Ledge where they they
can't really they're not going to get
the effect it's not nearly as effective
when you say it the second time the
first time was through emotion it was
the amigdala you get it and the second
time was you're forcing them to into the
prefontal cortex to make like a a
logical you got it yeah now now they
have to think does this make sense for
me to say again yeah because the first
it the first effect isn't there it's not
as uh it's not as powerful the first
time when somebody gives you an insult
and you say you know I didn't I didn't
catch all that I need you to say that
again for me can you repeat that most of
the time they won't because they know at
now I look bad because you all you did
about with that question has put the
spotlight right back on them and they
can't they can't take that so they don't
know what to do with
it it's interesting because some of the
things you as you were talking I was
thinking is this like advice for dealing
with really toxic people or is this also
advice just for dealing with like
couples arguing because it sounded the
type of person that would not respond to
that really hurt me yeah sounds like a
bit of a monster right like a narcissist
when when somebody is so if my
girlfriend turned around to me and said
that really hurt me I'd like it would
kill me yeah some people yeah let's put
it in well one it's because you love the
person right and she loves you and so
that's that's a little bit different
when you're dealing with people that
are everyday rude at the workplace or
the office or maybe you are in a
relationship with somebody who's a
narcissist or somebody who is toxic or
you have that bad relationship I think
it's perfectly okay to use these kind of
sentences that are going to put somebody
back I mean like even let's say in my
own relationship okay I certainly use we
both use wife and I the did you mean for
that to sound short I've also said
something and said something I didn't
mean and she's come back using my own
things no that's not okay yeah and she
oh my gosh yeah and and and she'll say
you know did you did you say that to
upset me
but and you're like but but at the same
time understand that when you say those
kind of
things some sense of it is giving grace
to the other person of not accepting
that what they meant to say or what they
say was what they meant to say because
maybe I I'm giving you the chance here
to clarify if I were to say did you do
you mean for that to sound rude and
you're like oh goodness no that's not
what I meant I'm giving you the the
grace of a second chance rather than
just deciding to to take it personal we
do that a lot on text message like
somebody sends you a text and all of a
sudden you're feeling like oh my gosh
this is the rudest thing ever and then
you find out they didn't give it with
that kind of inflection or tone at
all I was thinking of two things at the
same time I was thinking when we
approach these difficult conversations
with difficult people is there a certain
priming that we need to do to ourselves
to make sure that we're in the right
frame of mind because even as a
podcaster I see huge variance in my
ability to like speak and articulate
myself based on
things that happened in the last 24
hours yeah so is there do you ever think
about like when you've got those big
cases coming up how to prime yourself to
make sure that your brain your mouth
everything is working in unison and you
feel like emotionally ready for that
conversation yes so one I I do one is I
let's put it in terms of work and home
because everybody listening right now us
included we have a a work life and then
we have a home life and sometimes it's
really easy to switch those up is never
allow myself to be put in a conversation
when I'm not ready especially important
conversations like you don't want to
wait until you have 10% of your battery
left for 100% of a conversation it's
just not going to go well when you wait
till you finally put the kids to bed and
you're both drained and exhausted or
you've had a really hard stressful day
and you're mad and like that's the time
when it's right before bed that you're
going to decide to have the most
important conversation between you two
it's never going to go well like because
you're aggravated you're agitated you're
probably hungry and so you you don't set
yourself up for failure and that would
be don't have a conversation when you're
not ready ways to and this goes same for
your triggers is part of that
self-awareness is saying that out loud
meaning I'm going to begin my sentence
with I can tell I can tell I'm not ready
for this
conversation or you say something that's
triggering to me I can tell I'm getting
defensive I can can tell that's
upsetting me like when you say it out
loud when you claim it you control it
rather than me starting to act
defensively and being defensive and
saying defensive things I say I can tell
I'm getting defensive like that now I've
said it out loud of that feeling I'm not
becoming the feeling I've said it and so
there's a big big difference in how when
you're in those difficult conversations
when you want to prepare yourself you
find ways to one have self-awareness of
I can tell when I'm ready when I'm not
ready second of all is if you know your
triggers and you know what's going
to upset you you try and like curb that
as best you can when you're when you're
not in the fight or flight you're not
going to put yourself in a bad position
so that that would be the biggest
takeaway is don't you put don't put
yourself in position to
fail and I've also heard you say that
when um you're being disrespected I mean
this was the first of the three points
you said a second ago
is to create that silence again uhuh why
is why does that matter what you mean by
that yeah so pauses though they are the
absence of words they're not the absence
of
communication meaning there's a
difference and pauses
between somebody saying I love you and a
really long pause before somebody says I
love you too or somebody your girlfriend
asked where were you last night
and you take one second to respond
instead of seven seconds to respond they
each say different things so pauses are
wonderful at getting the other person
and yourself to fill in
blanks and when you're dealing with
people who are let's say toxic or ugly
or just not being nice they will fill in
that silence for you and it it does two
it does two things it allows you with
the breath and the pause to make sure
you keep the analytical side pushing the
emotion down you're not getting
flooded next it's also doing the same
thing for them when I add silence I
making you almost repeat your words back
in your head and often you've been in
those arguments where somebody already
apologizes for what they said without
you having to say anything you've seen
it too on a text somebody says something
ugly in a text and you don't respond for
a few
hours most often they will reply back at
least in my world they say like I
shouldn't have said that or they'll try
and reframe it or they'll edit the text
you now you have the benefit of uh
hindsight when oh that didn't that
didn't sound good or they'll twist their
word again to to fix it so like for
example I see this a lot with Liars
people who who lie on the stand and in
litigation you always have people lie
even in deposition just it's just part
of it you don't really get surprised by
it but silence is the number one like
killer of liars because they have
conversations in their head for you so
if you're going to tell me a lie for
example and instead of me going that's
not true that's not true and then you're
going to it's like you like that okay
good they're engaged now I can start to
manipulate the narrative and you'll tell
a lie and then it forces me to try and
fix it no no no that's not true remember
you did this and you did this and you're
trying to get around them that's exactly
what the liar is wanting the more
engaged the more conversation the more
believable it feels to you so then you
start to doubt yourself like oh maybe
they did Silence like just destroys them
so if you were to tell me a lie and I
waited five to seven seconds and I
repeated the question to you are I
repeated your answer let's say I know
that you
were at the store last
night and you're trying to lie to me and
say no I was home last night and let's
say I think you weren't not to no good
at the store and you go uh just say
Jefferson I was at the store last night
I was um I was at the store last night
7-Eleven at the store last night at the
[Music]
yeah I'm going to come back to to this
conversation in a bit right so all of a
sudden the liar is like oh no no no
don't don't do that don't do that don't
do that like oh now you're now you're
thinking about it now you're thinking
about it like you you know I was at the
strip club yeah yeah yeah it's like I I
know you weren't where where you say so
if you can say you add in time
like um I want I'll come back to this
conversation or if I were to say
something feels
off they don't like that they Liars
don't like that at all because they want
you engag they want more conversation so
when you slow it down and you
go it's not not even saying I don't
believe you don't say that that's that's
getting them that's more engaged in
conversation but when you slow it down
and get quieter of I'm thinking I'm just
thinking Liars will start to have the
conversation in their head with you
they'll start to say things like I mean
what what do you I mean what do you
let's put myself in your position if you
said you're at the store and I didn't
really believe you you'd be like I mean
where where do you think I was I mean
why why would I be there like they start
to try and get into your head so that
they can fix it I'll try to twist The
Narrative to to place the pieces in a
way of they're not going to fill in
every piece of the puzzle the jigsaw
puzzle but just enough hopefully you get
the rest of the picture but silence
pauses that's where your real power is
because they can't do anything with it
and it shows that you're the one in
control and they're the ones that are
not and I guess you want if you're lying
in that context you want certainty that
the other person believes you so the
issue with the big pause you gave is
if I was at the strip club last night I
now don't have certainty that you
believe what I'm saying so I need to
like keep going until I can convince you
yes that I was at you know the 7-Eleven
so I now I need to push back on you and
say what what you mean exactly why why
you asking this yeah yeah exactly why
you asking me this yeah yeah you're
wanting more give me a conversation we
need conversation I need it now cuz the
uncertainty is not good to deal with no
oh no they get in their head about it
but it's this that same concept we
talked about of people who tell the
truth
they don't they have all the patience in
the world if uh if you really were at
the store and I was like I I need to
think about this for a minute You' be
like okay you know it wouldn't bother
you because the those that have told the
truth they have they have nothing to
hide if you need to think on it you
something FS off okay well I'm I'm here
to talk about it but that's that's where
I was and you do know you know that like
regardless if they think about it or
regardless of whatever they do next I
know where I [__] was so you're only
going to un uncover evidence that I was
at the 7-Eleven last night that's
exactly right you're going to look at my
bank statements you're going to see I
was at the 7-Eleven last night so
there's a certain confidence that comes
with that where you don't need to prove
yourself yeah it's a relief it's a
confidence of going no I know I know
exactly where I am it's that that inner
confidence we talked about at the very
beginning but the people who don't tell
the truth oh I mean I I can if I had a
dollar for every time I've seen it where
I've asked somebody the question back
they said um usually it's texting while
they drive I never text I never text
when I drive let's say I asked somebody
you asked me the question you know um
here we'll run it through so ask me the
question were you texting while you were
driving that day were you texting while
you were driving that day no I never
text never text when I drive now notice
I said a big word I said never never is
an extreme extremes are dead giveaway
that they're usually not telling the
truth everybody texts when they drive at
some point in time even in your car
never and always or never it's always or
never true
so that's a big one second of all I
answered really quickly I didn't breathe
or really think about it and try and
actually show you that I was trying to
remember in time give you a really
immediate response
so um what you're going to do we're
going to replay it again I'm going to
say same exact thing and I'm G to ask
you to give me about five seconds of
time and then I want you to repeat what
I said slower cool so ask me if I was um
if I was um texting while I was driving
that day were you texting while you were
driving that day no no never I I never
text when I
drive you never text when you drive well
on so even that I didn't I didn't even
like that so what they'll do most often
is they'll even go well I mean I mean I
mean sometimes I do because now they you
just hinge on that word never so now
they know oh that's a risk word and
they'll kind of come out of it and go I
mean I mean sometimes I do I mean maybe
but but but hardly hardly ever hardly
ever when that happens what you
typically want to do is give them an out
now they've they've put themselves into
a corner and now they're looking for an
out and a way to do that is go if you
were texting it's it's okay do you own a
business or do you work in marketing if
that's you listen up for a valuable
opportunity from our show sponsor
LinkedIn I'm an investor in about 40 odd
companies and while they operate in
different Industries they all face one
challenge maybe the most important
challenge when it comes to marketing
getting their brand in front of the
right audiences we can probably all
think of times when we've been scrolling
on social media and received an ad that
absolutely wasn't relevant to us
LinkedIn has now grown to a network of
over a billion professionals including
130 million decision makers which means
you can specifically Target your buyers
by job title seniority industry even
company Revenue so stop wasting your
marketing Budget on the wrong audience
and start targeting the right crowd
through Linkedin now and because you're
part of my Community LinkedIn is
offering you a $100 credit for your next
campaign head to linkedin.com diary to
claim yours now that's linkedin.com
diary and of course terms and conditions
apply and only available on LinkedIn
ads you think about how your body
language is communicating yeah I have 12
jurors that are watching every bit of me
as soon as I come into the courtroom I
mean oh yeah you you have the judge you
have the bayth you have a court reporter
you have uh people in the back and you
have two benches you have attorneys
probably lots of attorneys they're par
legals you have your clients and 12
jurors who all they do is watch you like
a Hulk so the good
attorneys are pretty emotionless when
they hear are almost near emotionalist
when they hear bad information bad
information being information that goes
against your case exactly a client says
a witness says something that hurts
their case and they just keep on writing
or they just kind of sit back and
reading the really bad attorneys
go stop flopping exactly because all it
is you're telling the jurors the jurors
go oh they said something that that
hurts their case same thing with uh
objecting bad attorneys object a lot
objection your honor that's that's
leading objection your honor that's
already been ruled on uh you know
there's there's all kinds of lots of
objections and the Rules of Evidence but
if a juror says they watch and go oh
they're hiding something from me they
don't want me to learn this information
objection honor that's irrelevant
objection honor that's here say oh
there's something that's happened that
they don't want me to hear why would
they do that unless it hurt Mya their
case but the Good attorneys object maybe
one or two times and they do it in a way
that encourages the discussion a little
bit more of almost explaining it uh so
yeah it's you always have to watch your
body language and how something is
affecting you or not like if you have a
sometimes sometimes you'll see attorneys
go up to the bench and have a quiet
little meeting with the judge and the
one the attorney who looks defeated you
know because they feel like they lost
all the jurist think is oh they must
have not gotten what they wanted oh
something's
wrong it gets it gets in their head same
thing I mean jurors are I mean they're
just people but we have a six sense
about us that we can sense things about
if someone is telling the truth or or
not at the end of Trials most people
don't know this we get to talk to the
jurors
he had to ask them questions if they
want but you can after the trial's done
I can go up if you were a juror I can go
up and ask you how' you think of the
trial what was your favorite piece of
evidence what you know what really made
the decision for you and you're amazed
at what you thought was a huge piece of
evidence they didn't even care about it
was like this one little thing you're
like you thought about that I had it
once where uh the other attorney during
they call it Vader in west side of the
world we call it a v in south I mean
you're asking questions of the jurors
and one attorney it was just a really
hot room but we learned that afterwards
she didn't really like that attorney at
the end of the jury because while he was
talking he was sweating a whole lot and
it made him look really nervous and so
she didn't think that he was really
believed in his case so you find like
these little bitty things you're like
how does that happen but it's it's
seriously that critical someone thinks
that a witness on the stand is not
really being
not really crying they're trying to put
on an act oh the jury will hang them the
jury will just
absolutely destroy their case if they
think somebody is putting on a
show are there any moments from famous
trials that you think about and use his
reference points for exceptional
prosecution or exceptional
defense um that we might know I was
recently watching the OJ case oh are you
you know I it's funny because we all
know of the OJ case but I've never
actually like watched the trials and all
of those things because it was on
Netflix and there were so many moments
in there where I was reflecting as you
were speaking about like how the
prosecution responded to evidence and
how they responded to the glove and all
those things are there any moments from
famous trials that you you think about
that are kind of supportive of your
point or yeah I mean a lot of I wouldn't
even say famous ones because I don't
even the famous ones to me aren't that
great it's just because of the
high-profile of the clients involved
that made it famous but I like you take
the Johnny Depp case most other
attorneys will watch that and go that
wasn't that great it was just juicy
because it was it was drama and some of
the the the Witnesses were hilarious and
it was just kind of a funny but people
got to see what real trial is is like
but there's some things of like you know
an attorney objecting to hearsay to his
own question like things that you go
us attorneys go that what are you doing
so I wouldn't even say the famous trials
but ones let's say that I think of all
the time that I grew up um watching
is
it here it was a case involving a um an
old janitor who had gotten in an
accident and they were trying to prove
that he didn't remember the events and
they were other side was trying to prove
they
they were right they were trying to
prove that the other guy was wrong and
when the other attorney came up gave the
closing
argument he did such a good job of
getting ramping up the Dynamics of his
voice so you hear that a lot with like
preachers and pastors sometimes they
their Highs are really high and their
lows are really
low and
so he did this wonderful thing of the
way he would smile at the jury and
almost show them that hey you can
believe them if You' like but I'm going
to tell you the
truth and he did this such a way that he
could convince someone the way he was
talking that you go I just got to listen
to this guy I want to hear all that he
had to say where he he would do it and
he would make his
words pause like and hang on every
single word I don't remember I don't I
was a kid but the reason I share it is
because it was so fundamental to me
at the time going wow okay this is how
you tell a story this is how you
persuade because I'm getting to watch
not just the attorney I'm getting to
watch the jurors I'm getting to watch
how you know what they're appreciating
and what matters to them that was really
pivotal for me to see those kind of
Dynamics at play and is that like he's
using inflections and pauses yes yes
like Aunt exactly it's um it's the
ability to use your voice um and Vanessa
and Vin do wonderful jobs at this how
how do you play the instrument of your
voice what I encourage and what I like
to teach is how do you how do you
persuade even with vulnerability so
let's say for example in this moment
you're an attorney and I'm an attorney
all right we're against each other we
each have a client and we're friends in
real life but this is business and you
know I got to represent my client and
here we go we we a juror in front of us
have a jury in front of us and let's say
that I go up and I say ladies and
gentlemen let me tell you what you're
going to find in this case is the other
side is just totally wrong everything
that my clients's done has been 100%
correct they followed the law they
followed the rules they followed every
single policy and what they're demanding
from us is just absolutely insane you're
going to find at the end of this case
with all the evidence I ask you to find
for my client all right that's what I
just said now you go up there same jury
and you go ladies and gentlemen I'm
going to tell you right now my clients
could have done better they made a few
mistakes they're going to be things that
you're going to see that they follow
every rule the best that they can and
people are people and why we're here is
because what they're asking of you is
simply unreasonable and it's just not
fair and we're only going to ask you to
find what's fair so at the end of this
case we're going to ask that you find a
favor of my clients now anybody who's
listening right now who do you think
that they are naturally going to be more
drawn towards the case for imperfection
vulnerability and fairness you got it
they're going to hear me my case of 100%
perfectness and go that's not real
that's not real we know that experience
everybody has vulnerabilities everybody
could have done something better and so
they're going to naturally gravitate and
go you your case you're the truth
tellers and once you establish yourself
as the truth teller in the conversation
it is a hard position to leave once you
establish like especially with judges on
once a judge knows that you give him the
case law even when it's against you he
will believe you for the rest of all
time for all your cases because it they
know that you you follow the you follow
the law you tell the truth so it's much
easier when you think I was thinking
about it in the context of selling to my
clients back in the day when I used to
run a marketing business the thing that
I found to be most effective was when I
told my clients
the truth I.E I don't think so what
would often happen is my clients would
develop a really good relationship with
me so my client might be a CEO of a big
billion dollar fashion company right and
so they would have a relationship with
me the trust the bridge of trust would
be with me my team would come in while I
was sat with the CEO of this big company
and my team would pitch an idea to the
brand right if I if I sat there and
criticized and pointed out the faults in
my team's pitch the deal was done how
cool do that so so we would sit there in
his big glass office and I'd say I don't
love idea 3 I don't think that's going
to work even though and and then I'd say
idea one though I think that's the
winner idea two is okay but it's not
worth the effort idea 3 is certainly not
going to work but idea one I think
that's the winner and because I was
pointing out the flaws in what's my own
company yes they trusted me for years
I'm telling you and I was being honest I
was always being honest so if I thought
it was a bad idea I'd say it was a bad
idea and this is the long game yes which
is feels counterintuitive right yeah and
that's a that's perfectly said and even
when let's say I was giving a closing
argument and let's say I was defending a
company and it was always better if I
said now I believe after hearing the
evidence you should give their client
this I agree with that they deserve this
but I can't but it shouldn't be this
number right you see how all of a sudden
you're like oh okay well I can agree
with that way different if I said they
don't deserve a penny like very very
different now in everyday conversation
it's that same way if I stand by I did
nothing wrong I I couldn't have said it
any differently everything I said was
perfect I'm right is the principle of it
whenever you always have there's no way
I could have said that differently you
were giving the same exact Vibes but if
I came to you and began that
conversation with I could have said that
better you know what happens the other
person goes I could have said that
better it's really disarming and it's so
better I could have done better like
that is a magic phrase I've seen so many
relationships um get through Conflict by
using the phrase I could have done
better by Leading with that right there
ultimate vulnerability and the other
person goes I could have I could have
done better too rarely do they say yeah
you could have they don't they really
don't uh they they almost always take
that down because it's much
more it it just it brings down their
offensiveness what about when you're
dealing with someone that you don't like
oh yeah well a lot of life is like that
right yeah the secret to dealing with
someone you don't like you treat
them like they do you treat them like
they do like you and that you do like
them it's hard though isn't it because
your body responds it is hard your body
starts to give it away exactly well
you've done harder things in life you
know yeah but it yeah your body does I
mean but there are some let's put some
parameters around it one you want to
limit that amount of contact if you're
around them the whole day a whole lot
harder if you can be in front of them
for 2 three minutes easy second of all
is be mindful of who's around you
because people are watching and it's
that uh I forget how the phrase goes but
if you argue with a fool onlookers don't
know the difference yeah yeah it's like
they don't who's so if you all of a
sudden act rude to someone and they
deserved it because of what they did two
weeks ago somebody in the room is
they're not going to blame the other
person they're going to put it on you so
don't give someone a reason to you know
affect your integrity so when you just
act like they do treat them like they
like you your life will go better
because it'll make you feel better one
it'll make you feel like the better
person two let's say that other person
is ambivalent on you if you show that
you don't like them all you're doing is
just confirming to them this person
hates me and you know what I don't like
them either mhm it's just reinforcing
that feeling now they're sure to not
like you but when you don't give them an
enemy there's nothing they can do that's
what happens in a lot of conversations
arguments people are looking for an
enemy they're wanting someone to justify
that behavior and when you don't give it
to them it's very frustrating I mean in
trial litigation one of the most
effective things you can do is just kill
someone with kindness when ever you're
not ugly or rude you don't give them
somebody to be the villain because
that's what they want that's how they
want to justify their their bad behavior
of how they're treating you MH and when
you just act like you do like them you
limit the amount of time or you're very
objective and very neutral of like hey
I'm I'm here to talk with you about this
and then I'll be on my away like as long
as you can be very direct and you're not
giv those snide comments if somebody
asks what time it is and you go I mean
you would know if you had a watch like
that's what you want to do and in just
instead of giving them the time go about
your day yeah don't don't give somebody
an excuse to lower your integrity what
about um the subject of small talk which
we all I mean I think most people hate
small talk I especially I don't like
small talk but many people hate small
talk is there is there a skill at all to
being a real master of small talk in
your view one would be don't ask
questions that elicit a one-word
response these are what they call closed
ined questions you want these for
cross-examination because on
cross-examination I just want yes or no
questions did you go to the store yes no
I want you on open when I'm on direct
examination I want to open you up to
discussion I want you to talk more so
what you do is you take advantage of
asking questions that open you up ask
open-ended questions these are questions
that begin with how or what or when or
where instead of uh like did you go to
the store the same effect would be did
you have a good weekend I'm only
limiting you to a yes or no you talk
about these conversational goals yeah
having a conversational goal in your
small talk you talk about on page I
think 40 45 and 46 of of this book yeah
so as a conversational goal I'm a
podcaster I know I'm meeting you today
so I walk in here with a goal in mind
that when I start speaking to you I'm
trying to get somewhere right is that is
that what you mean by conversational
goal well there's two separate sides you
want to have a conversational goal
really for any conversation that you're
going to have now that's different if
like you're in your hoodie and
sweatpants with your friend watching a
movie like you don't have to have a
conversational goal saying if you're on
one-on-one with somebody at work it's
not a bad idea if you go into their
office you have a goal for where is the
conversation going to end because
otherwise it spins anxiety in the other
person like if somebody text you and
says we need to talk period you're like
I I automatically think it's the worst
it's like oh something's terrible they
we're we're uh we're breaking up
something's terrible something's on fire
it's the worst because it's that anxiety
that that trigger of the unknown so
instead you always want to have a
conversational goal like the frame we
talked about you're telling them how you
want the conversation and same kind of
thing with small talk but when it's much
easier when you set a goal that's very
low like instead of saying I want them
to be so impressed with me they don't
know what to do what's more impressive
is when you're curious about the other
person I want to make sure that I ask at
least three questions of this person and
see what they have to say that's a great
goal I want to make sure that my goal is
understanding where they're coming from
just a little bit more so with small
talk people love to tell them how they
got there people love to talk about
themselves everybody knows that one
question to ask is how they got to the
present moment for example how did you
how did you learn that where did you
come across this yeah how did you how
did you get in where you are today and
people are like oh let me kind of talk
about myself for a minute and people
love it because they get to tell a
story very different if I said hey
what'd you do this weekend all it was
good we you know stay at home that's not
there's no story element to that there's
nothing you can do with that but if you
get them talk about a story of what led
them to their present moment much better
another tip is you get to talk to them
about things that are happening in the
future rather than looking at the past
the past is really not that great for
people because they feel like it's
boring they don't feel like the past of
something is that remarkable but they
typically find things that they will
look forward to in the conversation what
are you looking forward to doing this
weekend what are you excited about
what's coming up for you they'll find
things that go kind of oh well I'm kind
of excited about this fine Z but if you
ask about what's happening in the past
they kind of have this like ah you know
I just it's in the past I didn't really
do
anything what are the things that you
admire the most in some of the peers you
have as a trial attorney is there a
particular trial attorney that you
admire the most through history or
through that you you've encountered and
if so what is it about them that you
admire so much oh that's hard there's a
lot I mean I mean it is very cliche but
I'm a huge Abraham Lincoln like nerd why
uh because of the way he was able to get
people in his Circle in the most
unaggressive unassuming way so he um
when he ran as a nominee for the
Republican party convention he was a
no-name I mean he was I mean pretty much
a noname he had run for Congress a few
times but he was not the the clear
winner all the other people that were
involved um
were the the main Front Runners the main
Front Runners the people that were big
out William Seward you had mlen you had
Stanton all these guys that um deserve
the spot to be the Republican Party
nominee for at that time and lo and
behold a lot of different reasons
Lincoln won now what he did was as soon
as he won nomination for president he
turned around and invited those men into
his cabinet now that is like that would
be like President Trump turning around
inviting everybody who ran against him
who criticized him for the last election
cycle and saying be on my
cabinet that that's like any president
saying oh all you opponents who said why
I shouldn't be me and why I should lose
come be part of my my cabinet and it
went from them hating him at the
beginning of saying he's so unqualified
trying to hurt him hurt his reputation
to like sobbing at his funeral like they
couldn't even imagine what the world was
going to be like without him and he did
it so well in how he brought people in
Doris I think it's K Goodwin has a
wonderful book called Team of Rivals I
love it and it just goes into the all
all the details of each of these
personalities and how you dealt with
them how somebody even went out to the
newspaper and and was trying within his
own cabinet trying to cause problems he
didn't even address it with him instead
he brought him in even closer made him
feel important give him more jobs like
ways of just handling the Dynamics this
very emotional intelligence and so he
was wonderful at telling stories I that
was his main thing people just love to
listen to the guy and so I just I think
that is such a beautiful portrayal of
how to handle life that some of your
enemies all you need to do is just bring
them a little bit closer and understand
them a little bit more you're going to
find you have a much better life do you
think there's an element of like
spirituality or religion that somewhat
ties into this I was thinking of like
the Buddhist philosophies of
and just various religious and spiritual
philosophies of like forgiveness and um
taking the higher ground and right and I
for an i makes the whole world blind I
agree yeah I mean mine is be quick to
listen slow to speak same thing I mean
if you look at the Bible book of James
is full of these wonderful little
Proverbs about how it's the power of the
tongue I mean it is to control who you
are it's you control the power of the
tongue and so it is it's so fascinating
how what we say really is tied to just
our entire Essence who comes into a room
I mean it's what you say is who you are
like for the vast majority of your life
like what comes out of your mouth is
controls what they think of you controls
your reputation controls where you're
going to go I just it's simply what you
say next I mean you can't you can't call
yourself a kind person if you don't use
kind words I mean it's really what you
say when go I don't really like that
person what you really mean is they say
things that I don't
like and so it's just the power of of
what we say that truly can change
everything about your life it's a big
deal yeah it is it's a big calling it's
a really big calling and I think that
those who invest in their words invest
in using better words will have a better
life they'll find that they'll have more
peace they'll have more control they'll
have more confidence and it's not
something they can buy
on Amazon it's not a it's not something
that they can just get it is simply by
what they choose to come out of their
mouth that can make the difference and
what does that process that Journey look
like because some people will think I've
listened to this podcast now and I've
I've got the the tips the strategies
I've got some of the the big picture
ideas but you know I'll Implement that I
took notes etc etc but then next week
their spouse rolls in yeah starts
shouting at them whatever colleague at
work triggers them whatever and they
just revert back and they go [__] yeah
what is that I want to give people some
sort of like framing on the journey to
be going from where you are now which
might be quite ineffective and breaking
all of the rules that we've talked about
today to being a 10 out of 10 Master
Communicator what should one expect that
journey to look like yeah so let's say
for people who listen to this podcast
read my book would there are going to be
themes that naturally come out to them
that speak to them more than others or
versus another person so it's not like
it's linear like all of a sudden you
need to just you know do this one two
step uh and then you're and you're done
there are going to be certain elements
of our conversation that are going to
appeal to somebody what they need to do
is grab onto that and study that and
they're going to find ways to um focus
and get a discipline on that so let's
just focus on one rule that they want to
improve don't try improve your entire
everything just try and prove one thing
so if you have a habit of let's say
adding adverb to every sentence
essentially basically literally just so
very and you have all this fluff in your
emails and you don't want to do that
well you're going to catch yourself to
do that use I have an AI where that's
what I do so somebody can put in a a
sentence and say no remove all this
stuff and so little bitty things like
that where they can train themselves to
eliminate the fluff same thing with
maybe they find themselves over
apologizing just focus on that and do
one little better of time and I promise
you just even the next sentence that
they choose will be better than what
they could have put out this one change
has transformed how my team and I move
train and think about our bodies when Dr
Daniel liberman came on the dire of CEO
he explained how modern shoes with their
cushioning and support are making our
feet weaker and L capable of doing what
nature intended them to do we've lost
the natural strength and mobility in our
feet and this is leading to issues like
back pain and knee pain I'd already
purched a pair of Viva barefoot shoes so
I showed them to Daniel liberman and he
told me that they were exactly the type
of shoe that would help me restore
natural foot movement and rebuild my
strength but I think it was plti fitis
that I had where suddenly my feet
started hurting all the time and after
that I decided to start strengthening my
own foot by using the Viva Barefoot and
research from Liverpool university has
backed this up they've shown that
wearing Vivo barefoot shoes for six
months can increase foot strength by up
to
60% visit Vivo barfoot.co.nz
20 for 20% off that's the Vivo
barfoot.co.nz anymore not only can you
get perfect head match in cafes but you
can now also make it at home much
cheaper in seconds using our flavored
matcha powders that I have here in front
of me perfect Ted matcha is ceremonial
grade and sourced from Japan it is
smooth it is naturally sweet not like
those bitter grassy matches that I tried
before perfect Ted and if you are one of
those people that have told yourself you
don't like matcha it's probably because
you haven't tried our perfect Ted
matcher and you can find perfect Ted
matcher in the UK in Tesco sainsbury
Holland and Barett and in waitrose or
Albert Hine if you're in the Netherlands
and on Amazon in the USA or'll get the
full range online at perfect ted.com
where you can get 40% off your first
order with code Steven
40 the last section of rule number two
in your book is about boundaries
yeah what do you mean by boundaries in
this context and and also could you
explain to me this this image here did
you know that image I'll put it on the
screen for anybody to see it yeah yeah
yeah so this is all about how to say no
especially let's put it in a context of
somebody invited you to uh anything
let's say someone invited you to grab a
cup of coffee yeah all right let's put
it in terms of that's what this this
graph is so the graph says when you have
the chance to say no or yes to something
and you decide not to say no instead you
go oh maybe and then it just lives in
your head for the next you know week
until they ask again you're like I just
put it off but if you say no when you
need to say no then it doesn't live in
your head rent free so let's let's put
it in terms of let's say you and I uh
work at the same place yeah
and I ask you for hey uh Stephen let's
go want go grab a a cup of coffee at
this new place that I saw and you don't
you're like look you're thinking in your
head you're like look Jefferson you're
nice you know but you're not we're not
friend friends we're we're just work
guys you know I like you at work but
you're not that cool like that's I don't
want to go have coffee with you that's
what you're thinking in your head and
besides you're so busy you got too many
things to do uh and you need to say
no and instead you go oh oh man um you
know maybe maybe I it just depends I
I'll let you know like okay and then I'm
waiting the whole day to hear from you
and now in your head you're like how do
I tell them I don't want to do this how
do I tell them and now you're just
thinking about it and you're just
wasting your emotional energy and just
instead of saying no when you needed to
say no but what if I come up with excuse
I say I I just checked I've got a
meeting Jefferson so I can't come for
the coffee well if that's real but if
it's not real yeah well that's a problem
why is it a problem well because one
there's always a chance that they could
find out two it's just not genuine it's
not it's not sincere you you owe it to
yourself to to be a truth teller but we
we don't want to offend somebody yeah
that's a people pleasing right yeah so
like someone says to me hey Steve I know
you're in Austin I me this actually
happens hey Steve I know you're in
Austin um would be great to to get a
coffee with you while you're in town
right um on Monday and I look at my
calendar and I go I'm free on Monday but
I just don't want to go yeah yeah so
what do I say to them I just go I listen
I yeah exactly yeah
yeah
yeah actually no no I don't yeah um no
thanks pass hard pass so here's where
the mistake happens all right is when
it's that feeling of I don't want to
disappoint them I don't want them to not
like me that's what we want that's what
really it is I don't want them to not
like me I still want them to like me
the mistake happens when you go oh man
that sounds so great and and wonderful I
love to
but I can't I have a a full day of of
meetings um and that's that's all you
leave it at right there okay problem
with that aside from it just being not
true whatever the put it is hey man I
love to but all right the word but has a
magic of erasing everything that
happened before if I like look I love
you
but and I have to say something else oh
I think it was great yeah I mean I think
being on your podcast was was wonderful
um but uh like it just takes away it
feels less than what you said so
instead starting with the gra like we
want to start with the Gratitude oh
thank you so much that sounds wonderful
I can't that's what we wanted is like
that soft Landing uh reverse it start
with the no then end uh with the
Gratitude so it would be if somebody
said hey can you come to dinner whatever
on I know you're in Austin I can't thank
you so much for inviting me I I I'd love
to meet you or see you the the next time
around and if you can add some kindness
I've heard that place is awesome hope
it's a great time like uh same thing if
if you need to tell me no to having
coffee I can't or I have bad news I
can't let me know how it goes like I'm
sure it's going to be a great I've heard
wonderful things about it let me know
how it is like it's much easier if you
tell them that you can't upfront have
you ever had somebody tell you no to an
invitation and they're like in a in a
text they're going oh my gosh thank you
so much I've been I've just been so busy
and you know I've have to go feed my cat
and it's just been so stressful lately
and I'm uh I might be able to go I'll
let you know if I can and if anything
changes I'll definitely let you know
like you're like if if you just if you
don't want to go just tell me no yeah
yeah it's that kind of feeling we don't
know the we don't have the words though
this is the problem yeah I was
reflecting over over um new years's I
was at a restaurant and I was reading
this book about I think it was called
the courage to be disliked and it was
just developing my thinking on just
trying to be a bit more sort of
radically can give more radical cander
to situations and we were sat in this
like bar or whatever me and my friend
and um the owner of the bar had come
over and he's being really nice and he
likes the podcast and stuff and we're
talking and I was trying to practice
this art of just being being honest with
like in those sort of people pleasing
moments and my friend says to him oh
we've got to um we've got something to
get to blah blah and we hadn't got
anywhere to go so I remember
interjecting and going we want to leave
in 10 minutes so um if they can get here
before then then I'll I'm more than
happy to like sign the books and stuff
whatever they want me to do and it was
so interesting how much better I felt
about myself when I was just honest with
this guy yes like I was like no I don't
have anywhere to be I just want to go
exactly yeah but it's not it's not easy
on a day-to-day basis cuz even when I
did land here in Austin there were
people that text me saying of course
here in Austin let's go for a coffee and
in reality here's what my brain is
saying my brain is saying I need to
spend time with my partner yes when I'm
not recording this podcast I need to do
my bloody like my to-do list and my
slack and my emails and then I need to
go to the gym as well yeah so it's not
that I don't want to go for coffee with
you it's that like I have other
priorities that are impressing so how
would I communicate to them in that
moment
that they're just like not a high
priority like it's not a high priority
for me to go for a coffee yeah so what
you want to do is like we said instead
of beginning with oh I love to that
sounds terrific you know uh but I've had
you know I got so much to do and I can't
do this they're like H okay instead of
that just flip it and say I can't make
it this go around thank you so much for
inviting me I look forward to hopefully
seeing you soon or the the next time or
you know if you can't go to wherever
they're wanting to go I you can say got
bad news I'm not going to be able to
make that happen thank you so much for
thinking of me or I appreciate you
inviting me hope it's a wonderful time
and you don't even need to give them a
reason no reason no no no no that's
where you make a mistake is when you
give them a reason you start to have to
feel like you have to justify because
you start you're very subjective we're
all subjective in our head of a that's
not a good enough excuse I have to give
something that is worthy enough of the
excuse that I'm not going to be able to
make it and then that's where the
anxiety kicks in and that's where we
just push it off what if the excuses
real so I've been invited to this dinner
in London I actually can't go but it's a
very someone that I care about a lot um
I can't go because of my calendar and I
haven't responded to the email yet yeah
um I think in part because I'm like
trying to figure out how to let them
even though you see how it's taking up
your energy Tak up my [__] energy yes
so I in that situation I should
say
I I was going to say terribly sorry yeah
no no no okay I can't make it on this
occasion because I'm in
the Middle East um but thank you for the
invitation yes and if this ever pops up
again please do let me know I'd love to
come yeah because all of that is true
yeah there it is I think that's perfect
there's nothing wrong with saying
because I'm in the Middle East it's when
it's when it's more like that bar
scenario you don't have anywhere El to
go you saying it don't want to okay and
don't say terribly sorry uhuh know yeah
because there's nothing to apologize for
you haven't done anything wrong save
your apologies for when you said
something you should not have done
you've made an actual mistake and I'm
not terribly [__] sorry of course not
I'm not terribly sorry not sorry at all
you're very thankful you're very
thankful about it you know you're not
sorry at all so instead of the so
terribly sorry or unfortunately it's I
can't make it work you see how that's
it's when I say I can't make it work I'm
signaling to you that I have other
things going on and I cannot fit it in
it's not that you're not a priority I
just can't make it work and so anytime
you get that out front and then follow
it with the Gratitude I appreciate you
thank you so kind of you for thinking of
me and then add on a little bit like
just a sprig of kindness I'm like it's I
know it's going to be a wonderful time
perfect that's I mean that's that's all
you need right there instead of going I
need to respond to that email and then
you're like two weeks later you're like
I got to respond to that email and you
just get yourself worked up um it's so
ironic that I started this with an um
while I was holding this particular
image nice so what is this image I have
in my hand for people that can't see
this conversation right now yeah so it
it looks like it's verbal fillers so
verbal fillers one thing we've come to
learn from doing this podcast is that
when a guest on the show uses a lot of
verbal fillers people get irritated in
the comment section it's so interesting
but it's it's it's really taught me a
lot about how to speak better because if
someone comes on the Diary of a CEO and
the guest is constantly saying like like
um like like like like um like like it's
like the top three comments I just did
it then yeah it's the top three comments
on the on the video right should I be
getting rid of these filler words
they're like like I'm uh if I want to be
a more effective impactful Communicator
because the great communicators that I
see on stages and stuff they don't use
like um right if you're on a stage if
you're given a presentation don't use
them yeah that's that's a real easy rule
in casual conversation who cares it's
the only makes thing that makes this
different is because it gets posted and
people are going to pay attention to
every single word that you say and
they're going to want to put that up
everybody has some kind of verbal
fillers if they don't they've been
trained on it that's all that can almost
be guaranteed they've had some kind of
media training if they don't use any
verbal fillers because verbal fillers
are are very common but if you want to
be an impactful speaker at a
presentation you don't want to have the
um the a the like um Okay add okay right
after the sentence like well I'll see
different it's a habit for very new
attorneys to begin to ask a question of
a witness and say okay right afterwards
they'll ask so do you see the red car
just give an answer yes okay and they'll
write it and then they'll ask another
question and but the record so
everything's transcribed by a court
reporter reporter has okay okay okay
throughout it and so what a lot of
senior Partners will give the transcript
to the junior partner say just review it
see how what your verbal fillers are and
all of that stuff so it's a great way to
train but yeah verbal fillers you don't
want to make make a habit of them they
happen there's nothing wrong with saying
like or saying um nothing on its face
wrong with it it just has a way of
cluttering up your
sentences if I was going to say yeah so
um so anyway I mean and you can totally
tell me if I'm way off base here but
like so essentially I was thinking and
it's it literally does not matter like
you see how we kind of like dip in and
out and just like get to the point you
don't want to do that on a when you need
to be very effective in your
communication what is the most important
thing we should have talked about that
we haven't talked about as it relates to
the work that you do the questions that
people ask you and the value that you
have to give to my audience what's the
most important thing what they say what
people choose to say has a ripple
effect that will reach far more than
they ever thought it possibly could
it'll affect people that they don't even
know exist how they talk to people and
what you say
today affects how people think of you it
affects where you go in your career it
affects how your children will talk to
their children it affects how other
people will talk to their kids and
without you even knowing it another I
mean example of that is the playground
like we talked about everybody has a
memory of somebody's words it was
probably very simple the most simple
words often are the most powerful the
small ones they call EY glasses big huge
glasses and I remember being called four
eyes I crushed I was crushed being
called foure eyes if you call me that
today I'd be like so but at eight years
old I I something oh I for something is
wrong with me remember that being
something that was very important words
will last for a very very long time and
the people that are in your life will
say something to you and you will
remember it forever people in high
school you think oh everybody forgets
about high school no they don't you go
to law school everybody forgets no they
don't they remember exactly what you
said and who you were and even if it's
the person across the register or the
person taking your order at the cafe how
you talk to them affects how they talk
to their loved ones when they go home if
they you've made their day difficult
they're going to make sure that they
reflect that in some sense or it's going
to put them in a bad mood so what you
say truly has the
power to change everything so it's the
question and challenge of what will you
choose to say with yours
Jefferson thank you you're a father
aren't you I am yeah you got two two
children seven and five seven and five
so how are you thinking about what you
say to them oh all the day I mean I
constantly you you want your kid to be
the best of whatever you want to try and
raise a wonderful human so you're very
conscious of what you say to them
because they soak it all up I find that
the best thing that anybody body can
do as a new parent is to be a a safe
space for their kids and
communication one of the most terrifying
thoughts anybody who's listening who is
a parent is that your kid is not going
to come to you in their time of need so
they're going to be in high school and
they're not going to come to you with
the problems they're going to go run and
tell somebody else they're going to go
deal with it in other ways that are not
constructive because you have
established a pattern of making them
afraid to come to you
and putting them down in a sense that
they are afraid to come to you uh with
their with their struggles you know
arguments are a window into another
person's struggle and kids are no
exception and the way to think about
that is to say things like thank you for
coming to me with
this I acknowledge you could have talked
to someone else I'm glad you talked to
me when you can show them that you're
inviting them into that conversation
they're going to be more receptive to
coming to you again I mean that's that's
the main takeaway is what you say to
your kids they will repeat and how you
say it to their kids they're going to
repeat like you you most likely you saw
your parents argue a certain
way and then I saw my parents argue a
certain way and that becomes our default
of how we think other people should
argue have you ever been in those those
relationships where somebody the other
person wants you to fight with them yeah
oh gosh yeah and they're like I I don't
feel like you care unless we're yelling
I don't feel like you care unless it's
almost to this very toxic horrible level
and only then do I feel like I want you
to to argue with me I want to feel like
you're in it that's that's what they
grew up with that's all they they know
so to them that that is the default and
so it's the choice of how how do you
want to show conflict to to the
generations that that leave after you
what do you hope that people who read
this book will walk away with it with in
terms of value or a change perspective
I hope people will find that their words
truly have power that it it's within
reach that they will no longer have this
sense of hopelessness of I never know
what to say or I never feel like myself
I always feel like I people please I
always feel like I say less or I feel
less it's the sense of I can teach you
how to argue less and talk more by
simply
changing what you decide to say next and
and I I believe that
uh all the world needs is one better
conversation at a time I highly highly
recommend anybody who relates or
resonates with the com conversation
we've had today to go and get this book
because there's very very few like it
that approach it from the perspective
that you have of someone who conversat
for a living in many respects and um
where there's so much relying on your
ability to conversate effectively so I
highly recommend everybody who goes gets
this book it has these wonderful
illustrations in which are some of the
graphs that I put on the screen today
but it's an incredibly accessible book
it's not a book that you have to be a
PhD level in some sort of scientific
degree to understand it's really really
relatable it's written by someone who
understands Their audience tremendously
well but also clearly someone who's made
a ton of content but you you've 12
million followers online and understands
exactly how to relate to people so this
is the book for everybody and if you've
struggled with conversation if you feel
disempowered because you don't have the
skill of the tongue like some people do
if you feel like you're dealing with
difficult people in your life and being
manipulated or don't feel like you have
the the tools to get your point across
and to talk more and argue less and I
highly recommend you get this book and
I'll link it below for anybody that
wants to check it out we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next not
knowing who they're going to be leaving
it for and the question that's been left
for you is if you could go back in time
20 years and get a message from yourself
today what would that message be
let's see
36 go back in time to I was
16 I would probably tell him you're
doing a good
job just have a rule heart-to-heart
of you don't have to always just keep
chasing for what's next just be real
happy in the present moment
I think that started at an early age of
always wanting
to like anything you want to you want to
be the best you want to push yourself
you want to do that and sometimes I as
being the oldest
child and the old soul I I I don't think
I allowed myself to feel the freedom
sometimes of childhood I just grew up
really quickly took a lot of
Independence and responsibility on
myself at a really early age I was 16 I
was taking all of my kids all of my all
of my siblings yeah all of my siblings
to to school and I was while I was going
I'm I'm going over spelling words with
my my youngest brother and dropping him
off at first grade so I and I loved it I
have wonderful parents I just wanted
that responsibility and I think that
flew into college of is not in enjoying
things and saying no to things that
could have been really awesome
experiences because I felt
like I
I feel like I just needed to always be a
Straight
Arrow have you learned from that
time have you changed in that
regard a little bit I think I have
because I see it in my kids and my son's
seven my daughter's five and I can
already tell my son is just like
me and which is cool and scary
and so I try I find myself when I'm
talking to him it's like I'm talking to
myself and there's a part of it that's
very
healing when I can tell him of look even
if you he he just did coach pitch I'm
like hey look if you strike out I love
you just the same you're good don't
worry about it like hey we'll keep
practicing like just little bitty
moments where I didn't allow for myself
I didn't I just kept pushing and push in
and I don't think
I ever stopped to to do that so seeing
that with my son is very healing in that
way where I feel like I I kind I'm
talking to myself just as much as I'm
talking to
him Jefferson Fisher if I want to hear
more from you byy the book where else
can I find you yeah so you can find me
on social media Jefferson fer Instagram
Jefferson fisher.com book for the book
yeah you can just search Jefferson
Fisher on social media and I'll be
around thank you so much for doing what
you do it's um it's an incredible gift
to give people who feel like the lights
are off like they don't have as we said
a second ago like the tools and the
answers to be effective in their life
and it's as we said it's such an unfair
competitive disadvantage in life to have
all the skills all the talent all the
potential but it to be trapped behind an
untrained tongue yeah or an untrained
mind in the context of how we respond
and taking a pause and just having some
of those really sort of foundational
tools so thank you for doing what you do
it's so it's no surprise to me that
you're so incredibly resonant In This
Moment In Time where so so many of us um
quite frankly especially younger
Generations just don't know how to
communicate we don't know how to have a
conversation how to resolve conflict
because we're living behind screens now
right so much of our you
know the muscle of communication and
conversation has isn't being trained in
the same way so highly recommend as well
if anyone's got any kids out there that
are going off into the world and maybe
have been glued to Tik Tok for too long
for them to listen to this conversation
to buy the book um and to get further
into your work Jefferson thank you thank
you very much it's been an
honor the hardest conversations are
often the ones we avoid but what if you
had the right question to start them
with every single guest on the DI Co has
left behind a question in this diary and
it's a question designed to challenge to
connect and to go deeper with the next
guest and these are all the questions
that I have here in my hand on one side
you've got the question that was asked
the name of the person who wrote it and
on the other side if you scan that you
can watch the person who came after who
answered it 51 questions split across
three different levels the warm-up level
the openup level and the Deep level so
you decide how deep the conversation
goes and people play these conversation
cards in boardrooms at work in bedrooms
alone at night and on first dates and
everywhere in between I'll put a link to
the conversation cards in the
description below and you can get yours
at the diary.com this has always blown
my my mind a little bit 53% of you that
listen to the show regularly haven't yet
subscribed to the show so could I ask
you for a favor if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guest that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much
[Music]
oh